
Jenkins Sample docker run command:
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000 -d -v jenkins_home:/var/jenkins_home jenkins/jenkins:lts

Jenkins admin user credentials:
username - jenkins-user
password - jayaram@8317
fullname - vijay
email - vijay.nagendrarao@gmail.com

Types of Jenkins Projects:
Freestyle Projects - are used for simple,single tasks. Ex- running tests
Pipeline projects - can configure whole delivery cycle. Ex- test->build->package->deploy
Multibranch Pipeline - same as pipeline projects except this is applied for multiple branches of same repository.

Credentials in Jenkins:
Credentials jenkin plugin is used to store and manage "CREDENTIALS" needed by jenkins centrally.
There are 3 Credential Scopes
System - Available only on Jenkins server.(Used mainly by Jenkins Admins)
Global - Available for all the Jenkins jobs.Accessible everywhere across all the jobs.
Project - Credentials available only for one project.

Jenkins Global Credentials:
username - global
password - jayaram@8317
ID - global

Jenkins System Credentials:
username - system
password - jayaram@8317
ID - system

my-pipeline project credentials
username - my-pipeline
password - jayaram@8317
ID - my-pipeline

In summary, Jenkinsfile is a file that defines the steps of a single Jenkins job. At the same time, Jenkins Pipeline is a plugin suite allowing you to create and manage continuous delivery pipelines in Jenkins. Jenkins Pipeline can be defined using a Jenkinsfile, Blue Ocean, or the classic Jenkins UI

Jenkins file can be scripted or declarative.

There are two ways to trigger build in Jenkins.

Push Notification - Version control tools/repository (like GitHub) notifies Jenkins on new commit. This is more efficient.
Polling - Jenkins polls in regular intervals for changes in the repository.

To use push notifications do the below steps.
1) Install Jenkins plugin based on the Version control system/repository.
2) Configure Repository server hostname.
3) Set the Access token or Credential.

Build tools in Jenkins:

The build tools has to be installed as plugins.

JENKINS FILE:

what is Jenkins File?

Jenkins file is a used to create the complete pipeline starting from creating a new jenkins job. Jenkinsfile is a way of achieving PIPELINE AS A CODE.
Basically is basically a scripted pipeline.

